Namaste!
The biggest mistake that many people commit?
Is in the matter of the salary.
You do a job. They give you something in return.
They even use a dirty word called “Compensation”.
That “give and take” that happens?
The biggest mistake that happens during this
is: we end up comparing.
How much is he getting? How much is she getting?
How much am I getting? This comparison.
And, even this comparison, you compare it
on only one parameter.
We use just one measure to find out if we
are faring better than the others.
And that is wrong. This one parameter is Money.
How much are you earning? How much am I earning.
That is the only thing that is readily apparent,
and perhaps that is why we end up doing it.
But, big… big… mistake.
If we were to evaluate a job offer, you have
an opportunity to work somewhere, and you
need to decide whether this is right or not,
whether you should accept the offer or not,
if you need to think that through carefully,
or if you want to critically examine the current
job you are already in, whether it is balanced
and well-rounded, if you were to attempt to
find that out, there is a trick!
This particular furniture is called “ottoman”.
This European “stool” made of wood can
be used as an example.
A metaphor.
If you were to explain it simply, you see
these three legs for this stool?
Let us place an R on each.
R, R, R. If the ottoman is not to get “aattam”
(shake), the three legs have to be of the
same length, I hope you agree.
If one were to get a bit explicit, we can
say “If you want to balance your arse…,
you need to balance your R’s!”.
Shall we take it like that?!
So, what are these R’s?
Shall we look at them one by one?
The first R is Remuneration.
We have already touched upon this matter.
Money.
How many thousands of rupees are you raking
in?
How many lakhs of rupees?
Very clear simple number.
But, how do I look inside?
How do I evaluate whether the remuneration
I am getting is good or not…?
Well, do not just see how much revenue the
company is making.
How rich your boss or the owner of the company
is.
How much money he has, she has, in the bank.
That won’t do!
You need to ask these two additional questions.
Is it his money?!
Or is it an investment from outside?
Does he have control over it?
Does he have complete ownership on it?
That is the important question you need to
ask.
And, similarly, there is another question
you need to ask too.
Is it enough if they have it?
We need to know what they are intending to
do with that money!
Does he want to help society?
Does he want to buy a jet for himself?
Does he want to improve the economic status
of the lowest of the low?
Or, is he happy just taking care of himself?
Is she happy taking care of herself?
That is the question you need to ask!
So, two questions.
The first is “Is it their money?”
The second is “Do they have their heart
in the right place, to spend it right?”
The first R — Remuneration.
The second R is Responsibility.
The best way to find out if you are given
a responsible job is, are you missed if you
take a couple of days off.
Oh, you came?
Did your work?
Fine.
Oh, you didn’t come?
Somebody else did your work?
Fine.
Basically, are you the only person best suited
to do the job that you have been given?
That is an amazing test for getting yourself
a responsible job.
What is the proof that you have been given
a responsible role?
Well, there is nobody else who can do an equally
good job of it!
That is why you have been appointed for this!
That is good responsibility.
There is this huge machine there...?
I am responsible for it.
This huge team here…?
I am the one who will answer whether they
are doing good work or not.
That is Responsibility.
So, the second leg in that ottoman?
Responsibility.
Are you given a responsible role…
Remember to look out for that too.
Not just Remuneration.
The third R?
Is Renewal.
Your brain..
it is a muscle too.
Just like the biceps and triceps and quadriceps
of our body, our head, and the grey matter
within it, that too, is a muscle.
You need to exercise it.
What do you need in your job to exercise it
regularly?
You need a learning opportunity.
Ways to renew your mental muscle.
How do we test that?
How do we check and ensure that we are in
a position to renew it?
Well.
Here is the trick.
Have you been given a job where you just have
to USE what you have already learned and mastered?
OR, Do they say, I trust you, I know you are
a fast learner, I also know that the job I
am going to give you is not something you
already know how to do, I am trusting you,
I know you will learn on the job, take it
forward!
That is Renewal.
It is an opportunity for renewal.
So, we saw the three R’s.
Remuneration — Are they giving you money?
Responsibility — Are they giving you important
work?
Renewal — Are there opportunities for you
to learn?
For you to improve and become better?
Only if these three R’s are balanced, you
can sit on it!
Thank you!